Blog: 2026-07-28 specification release candidate (#2750)
modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol: blog/content/posts/2026-05-21-mcp-2026-07-28-rc.md

extension rather than the specification.

The [Tasks extension](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/pull/2663)
reshapes the lifecycle around the stateless model: a server can answer
`tools/call` with a task handle, and the client drives it with `tasks/get`,
`tasks/update`, and `tasks/cancel`. Task creation is server-directed: the client
advertises the extension and the server decides when a call should run as a
task. `tasks/list` is removed because it can't be scoped safely without
sessions.

Anyone who shipped against the 2025-11-25 experimental Tasks API will need to
migrate to the new lifecycle.

## Authorization Hardening

Six SEPs harden the
[authorization specification](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/draft/basic/authorization)
to align more closely with how OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect are deployed in
practice.

Clients now declare their OpenID Connect `application_type` during Dynamic
Client Registration
([SEP-837](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/pull/837)),
avoiding the common case where an authorization server defaults a desktop or CLI

> client to `"web"` and rejects its localhost redirect URI. Clients bind
> registered credentials to the issuing authorization server's `issuer` and
> re-register when a resource migrates between authorization servers
> ([SEP-2352](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/pull/2352)),
> and validate the `iss` parameter on authorization responses per
> [RFC 9207](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9207) to mitigate mix-up attacks in
> multi-provider setups
> ([SEP-2468](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/pull/2468)).
> The spec also documents how to request refresh tokens from OpenID Connect-style
> authorization servers
> ([SEP-2207](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/pull/2207)),
> and clarifies scope accumulation during step-up
> ([SEP-2350](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/pull/2350))
> and the `.well-known` discovery suffix
> ([SEP-2351](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/pull/2351)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clients must now validate the `iss` parameter on authorization responses per
[RFC 9207](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9207) in ([SEP-2468](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/pull/2468)). This is a low cost mitigation to a class of mixup attack that is more prevalent in MCP's single-client, many servers deployment pattern. In a future version, clients will be expected to reject requests without the `iss` parameter, so it is recommended that authorization servers being supplying the `iss` parameter if they don't already.

Clients now declare their OpenID Connect `application_type` during Dynamic
Client Registration
([SEP-837](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/pull/837)),
avoiding the common case where an authorization server defaults a desktop or CLI
client to `"web"` and rejects its localhost redirect URI. Clients bind
registered credentials to the issuing authorization server's `issuer` and
re-register when a resource migrates between authorization servers
([SEP-2352](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/pull/2352)).
The spec also documents how to request refresh tokens from OpenID Connect-style
authorization servers
([SEP-2207](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/pull/2207)),
and clarifies scope accumulation during step-up
([SEP-2350](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/pull/2350))
and the `.well-known` discovery suffix
([SEP-2351](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/pull/2351)).
```

I've increased the billing of the `iss` parameter since that's the one I most don't want people to miss.  I think "multi-provider setups" makes it seem like it's a niche thing, but I expect the majority of clients to be in that setup.
